4.1 Policy for system hardening and secure configuration 

5.7 Information security threat data should be collected and analyzed to produce threat intelligence. 

5.24 The organization should plan and prepare for the handling of information security incidents by defining, establishing, and communicating processes, roles, and responsibilities for managing information security incidents. 

8.9 Configurations, including security configurations, of hardware, software, services, and networks should be defined, documented, implemented, monitored, and reviewed. 

8.18 The use of utility programs that may have the capability to bypass security controls in systems and applications should be restricted and strictly controlled. 

8.19 Procedures and measures should be implemented to securely control the installation of software in operational systems. 

8.20 Networks and network devices should be protected, managed, and controlled to safeguard information in systems and applications. (translated trough ChatGPT) 

The main achievement with this policy is that it will reduce the risk of misconfigured systems and devices, which was one of the main factors that contributed to the incident. The policy also involves other aspects of the same theme, like threat intelligence and preparation of incident management to solve incidents that occur in a safe and structured way.  

 

4.2 Cryptography policy 

5.10 Rules for acceptable use and procedures for handling information and other related assets should be identified, documented, and applied. 

5.15 Rules for controlling physical and logical access to information and other related assets should be established and implemented, based on business and information security requirements. 

8.24 Rules for the effective use of cryptography, including the management of cryptographic keys, should be defined and implemented. 

8.25 Rules for the secure development of software and systems should be established and applied. (translated trough ChatGPT) 

This policy is established to avoid incidents that occur based on poor or absent use of encryption. In this case, a misconfiguration allowed communication in plaintext which resulted in recorded messages with care recipients being available for everyone knowing the server’s IP address. A strong encryption policy would have reduced the consequences of this incident, despite misconfiguration of the system.  

4.3 Supplier security policy 

5.19 Processes and procedures should be established and implemented to manage the information security risks associated with the use of supplier products and services. 

5.20 Relevant information security requirements should be established and agreed upon with each supplier, based on the type of supplier relationship. 

5.21 Processes and procedures should be established and implemented to manage the information security risks associated with the ICT supply chain for products and services. 

5.22 The organization should regularly monitor, review, assess, and manage changes in suppliers’ information security practices and service delivery. (translated trough ChatGPT) 

The supplier security policy is designed to ensure that all subcontractors comply with applicable EU legislation. In this case, compliance was lacking because subcontractors had been outsourced to Thailand, meaning the requirements were not fully met.  

 

4.4 Policy for handling sensitive information 

5.12 Information should be classified in accordance with the organization’s information security needs, based on confidentiality, integrity, availability, and requirements from relevant stakeholders. 

5.13 An appropriate set of procedures for information labeling should be developed and implemented in accordance with the information classification scheme adopted by the organization. 

5.14 Rules, procedures, or agreements regarding the transfer of information should be in place for all types of transfer mechanisms within the organization as well as between the organization and other parties. 

5.15 Rules for controlling physical and logical access to information and other related assets should be established and implemented, based on business and information security requirements. 

5.31 Statutory and contractual requirements related to information security, along with the organization’s strategy for meeting these requirements, should be identified, documented, and kept up to date. (translated through ChatGPT) 

 

A policy for managing sensitive information ensures that all sensitive data is handled correctly and securely. It establishes clear routines and agreements for both internal and external parties to guarantee that information transfers are conducted safely and in compliance with organizational standards. Without such rules, a secure framework between partners cannot be maintained, increasing the risk of information leakage, as illustrated in this case. 
